tip number one create your own energy
that peace comes from probably the most
powerful metaphor of my entire life and
that is the power plant doesn't have
energy it generates energy I've been
teaching that for 15 years on stage and
one guy stands up one time your ghost
actually you're wrong at my event you
know there's 2,000 people my bed he goes
well you're actually wrong I'm like oh
what am I wrong he says well a power
plant doesn't generate energy what it
does is it takes energy from one source
upgrades it so transforms the energy
then stores and transmits it so it's
really transforming energy from one sort
of location or one type of energy to
another and I love that metaphor because
I felt like that's my job you know so
much of my life is helping people reach
another level of energy because if you
don't reach another level energy you
can't serve it another level if you
don't reach another level of energy you
can't feel better be happier be a better
spouse you know it's like everyone says
I want that next level but they don't
understand energy is the requirement to
get there and when we measured energy in
our studies its we were talking about
really mental energy emotional energy
and physical energy and it was a huge
turning point in my life when I started
realizing these things because you know
that whole thing that we as
entrepreneurs you want to wait for maybe
one day I'll feel energized or maybe one
day I'll feel joy or maybe one day I can
have fun after you know all the money's
in the bank and you know you got you got
the house or the cars or the money or
the you know the stuff and then people
go on then I'm gonna be really a fun
person it's like no if you're not a fun
person when you're broke you're not
going to be that much more fun when
you're rich and I think that people have
to learn to bring the joy it's one of
our loyal tag glides on our shirts are
to bring the joy and that says you know
you don't have joy just like I don't
think people have happiness I don't
think people have sadness either I think
that we are generating the emotions and
the feelings of the experience in life
and soon as we own that responsibility
like it's really fun tip number two turn
passion into obsession
so in high-performance habits what we
did like you mentioned if you be the
world's largest study of high performers
data from over 190 countries from what
it essentially turns out to be like
people who are in that top 15% of
whatever they do and we found that there
was basically personal habits and social
habits in them the personal habits was
you know like seek clarity generate
energy and a third one was raised
necessity which was something I didn't
even know really was a thing
psychologically I mean as important as
it turned out to be and necessity is
kind of short for a performance
necessity or what they call
psychological necessity which means
there is a moment in which you are
serving people or you're trying to
achieve your goal or your dream in which
now it is not a preference it's a must
right but to use better languaging it's
it becomes necessary for us to excel in
this like it's not a hope anymore it's
not it should do it it becomes so
necessary that it connects with our
identity that we feel it is necessary
for me to deliver with excellence here
because that is Who I am it's necessary
because somebody needs me to do well
it's necessary for me to do well here
because this topic this thing I'm doing
I'm passionate about this I care about
this I want to master this I'm obsessed
with this and it's necessary for me to
do well because of the time it's it's a
deadline or it's go time or and when all
those come together that's for that
personal side of this is my identity and
obsessed about it and that other side
where it's like somebody needs me and
there is a real deadline right in the
middle
that's performance necessity and we when
we hit that game
changer game-changer but it is
uncomfortable because people don't want
to exude that much passion in which it
becomes obsession because they're
fearful of their obsessions well if I'm
obsessed about this topic it's gonna
take away from my family from my time
it's gonna introduce a lot of you know
fear or unknown to me so they back off
but I tell people all the time there is
a difference between passion and
obsession and high performers have
obsession about the topic right they are
obsessed about the topic in which
they're trying to learn master grow into
and so that obsession is real I tell
people look at the difference here's how
you know the difference between the two
when you're passionate everybody cheers
you are they're stoked for you oh you
found your passion awesome follow your
passion live with passion
be passionate chase your passions
everything like passion passion passion
passion passion is good like it was like
yeah it happened right when you're
obsessed they're like gonna be so crazy
why can't she be satisfied why do you
always got to get things so perfect why
do you spend so much time here when
you're obsessed people think you're nuts
so it's different and it's like I was
tell you if no one thinks you're crazy
you're not yet operating to the outer
limits of your potential you're not
there yet because somebody in your life
should say man you really care about
this in like a crazy way and when you
get there you know you found your thing
tip number three make winning a
necessity you have to be all-in and it's
the hardest thing to do because if it
fails then you can feel like a failure
you know I think of this idea of
performance necessity to stories kind of
come to mind one is I was working with
an Olympic gold medalist sprinter and
we're in the tunnel and we're going out
and he's talking about the competition
and we get up to the blocks and I said
he was really worried about the
competition I said well how do you even
gay who's gonna win you know in in his
particular race people are winning but
by you know one one hundredths of a
second tenths of seconds I mean these
are really close sprints and I said
well how do you know I said who would
you even bet on and he says you know I
would bet on the guy who gets down at
the blocks gets himself settled looks at
the finish line and says I got to do
this for my mom
that's good his performance necessity in
that is it's necessary for him to win
that race for his mom I think of you
know when I started my career and I I
really decided to go all-in with riding
and online training this is like 2006
I'd gone broke completely bankrupt and
failed
I left my corporate job at this cushy
kind of corporate job as a consultant
good job left it to right and I didn't
know how to make it as a writer I want
to do seminars workshops didn't know how
to do that so I was pretty much a hot
mess ran out of money
I got nothing that my name nothing kind
of no positive prospects no one's
calling me except the guys who want the
money and one night I'm riding and the
apartments are small on the bed I had my
bills my vision boards all my research
all my journals like the bed was
basically the desk extended desk and my
lady comes in Denise and she walks past
me but she sees I'm like trying to write
so it doesn't want to stir me she goes
crawls under covers of the bed and I'm
just typing kind of casually typing away
and I look over and I see my woman
sleeping under my bills and it was just
like you know because none of us want to
see our you know our family suffer
because we are not performing and I was
just like
I gotta figure this out and I'm telling
I wrote more that night than any night
in my entire life
next day I wrote more than ever that
birdlife golden ticket which gave him a
best-seller and in you know 18 months
later because I was like I'm gonna
figure out this online thing I'm gonna
route marketing I'm gonna figure out how
to teach I'm gonna go out of train and
get paid for it because I never even
paid for those things I said I'm gonna
figure out this industry and I'm gonna
make it 18 months later after her
calling under the bills I made four
point six million dollars online total
transformation people like how did you
do it I'm like she gave me and she was
my necessity I was not going to let my
woman be in that situation and she
believed in me she supported me she
married and you know but that was she
was my drive and the second part was I
went all-in with identity I said I am
going to be a great writer and I am
going to be when the greatest online
trainers are they less know as you said
an intro now we've graduated over two
million people have taken our online
courses in video series now I don't
think would have happened if I had had
the guts and maybe the no other choice
to say this is who I'm going to be and
I'm gonna build into that and it is
necessary for me to become that person
so let's go
[Music]
[Applause]